# Global Payment Service Homework

Sample Sprint Boot application with REST API endpoints for money transfer between accounts

This is Spring Boot version 3.5.11 application using Java 21 programming language, Gradle Build tool and H2 in-memory database.

To run the application, run the following command in a terminal CLI:

```shell
.\gradlew bootRun
```

The database contains Account records whose properites are:

- id - autogenerated UUID (Universally Unique Identifier)
- currency - stored as enum to specify the allowed currencies
- balance - float to allow decimal values - exact rounding will be implemented later

Accounts can be created by selecting their currency, but their balance is always 0 (zero) at initiation.

Transferring money between two Accounts can be invoked with the "POST /api/transfers" endpoint. Example request body:

```JSON
{
  "sourceAccountId": "a25a061b-2fdd-48f9-950d-0c2724c0091e",
  "targetAccountId": "eb0f946d-a159-4b4a-b481-8349db6f1e11",
  "amount": 975.31
}
```

Example response body:

```JSON
{
  "id": "a25a061b-2fdd-48f9-950d-0c2724c0091e",
  "currency": "EUR",
  "balance": 24.69
}
```

The endpoint returns 404 Not Found, if any of the accounts are not existing. It returns 400 Bad Request if the source and target Accounts are the same, if the currency of the accounts do not match, or if the source account's balance is below the requested amount to be transferred.

Planned developments:

- Currency conversion: if the currency of source and target accounts are different, then the requested amount should be deducted from the source Account, the amount should be converted to the target Account's currency, and added to the balance of the target account. This all needs to be transactional - no change to be carried out on any of the amount, if any steps fail. Conversion rates may be fetched from external API
- Make the transfer endpoint idempotent: using a "X-Idempotency-Key" header, the endpoint should respond with the same status or results, when the idempotency key is the same. No accidental multiple transfers should be allowed by the application.
- Integration with other services: to inform other services of the transfers, that results each transaction need to be sent to them. Some messaging service may be implemented for this, e.g., RabbitMQ, Kafka, AWS SNS. For this, the contents of the messages, the potential load of such transfers, and the planned consumers need to be considered.
- Testing: cover codebase with unit tests (using JUnit, mocking dependencies) and integration tests (invoking the endpoints and checking results using H2 in-memory database).
